Add m2m100 (#10236)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/model_doc/m2m_100.rst

    loss = model(**model_inputs, labels=labels) # forward pass

- Generation

    M2M100 uses the :obj:`eos_token_id` as the :obj:`decoder_start_token_id` for generation with the target language id
    being forced as the first generated token. To force the target language id as the first generated token, pass the
    `forced_bos_token_id` parameter to the `generate` method. The following example shows how to translate between
    Hindi to French and Chinese to English using the `facebook/m2m100_418M` checkpoint.

.. code-block::

    from transformers import M2M100ForConditionalGeneration, M2M100Tokenizer

    hi_text = "जीवन एक चॉकलेट बॉक्स की तरह है।"
    chinese_text = "生活就像一盒巧克力。"

    model = M2M100ForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained("facebook/m2m100_418M")
    tokenizer = M2M100Tokenizer.from_pretrained("facebook/m2m100_418M")

    # translate Hindi to French
    tokenizer.src_lang = "hi"
    encoded_hi = tokenizer(hi_text, return_tensors="pt")
    generated_tokens = model.generate(**encoded_hi, forced_bos_token_id=tokenizer.get_lang_id("fr"))
    tokenizer.batch_decode(generated_tokens, skip_special_tokens=True)

>     # => "La vie est comme une boîte de chocolat."

Reviewer: Since there is a result here, this should use the doctest syntax (so >>> for each line of code, nothing for the return.

    # translate Chinese to English
    tokenizer.src_lang = "ar_AR"
    encoded_zh = tokenizer(chinese_text, return_tensors="pt")
    generated_tokens = model.generate(**encoded_zh, forced_bos_token_id=tokenizer.get_lang_id("en"))
    tokenizer.batch_decode(generated_tokens, skip_special_tokens=True)

>     # => "Life is like a box of chocolate."

Reviewer: Same here.

single model able to translate between any pair of languages. However, much of this work is English-Centric by training
only on data which was translated from or to English. While this is supported by large sources of training data, it
does not reflect translation needs worldwide. In this work, we create a true Many-to-Many multilingual translation
model that can translate directly between any pair of 100 languages. We build and open source a training dataset that
covers thousands of language directions with supervised data, created through large-scale mining. Then, we explore how
to effectively increase model capacity through a combination of dense scaling and language-specific sparse parameters
to create high quality models. Our focus on non-English-Centric models brings gains of more than 10 BLEU when directly
translating between non-English directions while performing competitively to the best single systems of WMT. We
open-source our scripts so that others may reproduce the data, evaluation, and final M2M-100 model.*

Training and Generation
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

> M2M100 is a multilingual encoder-decoder (seq-to-seq) model primarily intended for translation task. As the model is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
M2M100 is a multilingual encoder-decoder (seq-to-seq) model primarily intended for translation tasks. As the model is
```

> multilingual it expects the sequences in a different format. A special language id token is used as prefix in both the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
multilingual it expects the sequences in a certain format. A special language id token is used as prefix in both the
```

> source and target text. The source text format is is :obj:`[lang_code] X [eos]`, where :obj:`lang_code` is source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
source and target text. The source text format is :obj:`[lang_code] X [eos]`, where :obj:`lang_code` is source
```

> language id for source text and target language id for target text, with :obj:`X` being the source or target text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
language id for both source and target text, with :obj:`X` being the source or target text
```

> respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- Supervised Training

.. code-block::

    from transformers import M2M100Config, M2M100ForConditionalGeneration, M2M100Tokenizer

    model = M2M100ForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained('facebook/m2m100_418M')
    tokenizer = M2M100Tokenizer.from_pretrained('facebook/m2m100_418M', src_lang="en", tgt_lang="fr")

    src_text = "Life is like a box of chocolates."
    tgt_lang = "La vie est comme une boîte de chocolat."

    model_inputs = tokenizer(src_text, return_tensors="pt")
    with tokenizer.as_target_tokenizer():
        labels = tokenizer(tgt_text, return_tensors="pt").input_ids

>     model(**model_inputs, labels=labels) # forward pass

Reviewer 2: (nit) think  `loss = model(**model_inputs, labels=labels).loss` is a bit nicer

- Generation

>     To generate using the M2M100 multilingual translation models, :obj:`eos_token_id` is used as the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    M2M100 uses the :obj:`eos_token_id` as the
```

>     :obj:`decoder_start_token_id` and the target language id is forced as the first generated token. To force the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    :obj:`decoder_start_token_id` for generation with the target language id being forced as the first generated token. To force the
```

    target language id as the first generated token, pass the `forced_bos_token_id` parameter to the `generate` method.
    The following example shows how to translate between Hindi to French and Chinese to English using the
    `facebook/mbart-50-large-many-to-many` checkpoint.

.. code-block::

    from transformers import M2M100ForConditionalGeneration, M2M100Tokenizer

    hi_text = "जीवन एक चॉकलेट बॉक्स की तरह है।"
    chinese_text = "生活就像一盒巧克力。"

    model = M2M100ForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained("facebook/m2m100_418M")
    tokenizer = M2M100Tokenizer.from_pretrained("facebook/m2m100_418M")

    # translate Hindi to French
    tokenizer.src_lang = "hi"
    encoded_hi = tokenizer(hi_text, return_tensors="pt")
    generated_tokens = model.generate(**encoded_hi, forced_bos_token_id=tokenizer.get_lang_id("fr"))
    tokenizer.batch_decode(generated_tokens, skip_special_tokens=True)

>     # => "La vie est comme une boîte de chocolat."

Author: This one got it right  @lhoestq 😉

Reviewer 3: Nice ! 🍫🍫🍫
